---
layout:     post
title:      Build a restful API service with flask,gunicorn and nginx
subtitle:   
date:       2020-1-12
author:     Howard
header-img: img/post-bg-unix-linux.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
    - engineer
    - aws
    - restful
    - flask
    - python
---

The framework I used is python flask, which is a micro service framework and very efficient in building rest API service. I considered doing this with aws API which can provide elastic scalability, however, your application will be tightly relying on aws in that way.  I would keep my application independent and portable, so I only used the EC2 (Elastic Computer) service.  



Prior to running the script, we need to install some modules:



`flask, flask_limiter, flask_monitoringdashboard, gevent.` 



These modules are imported for rest API service:



`from flask import Flask, request, g`
`from flask import render_template,jsonify`



To provide data download function, we need to import this module in flask:

`from flask import send_file`



I don't want my server being flooded, so I import these modules to control the request limit:



`from flask_limiter import Limiter`
`from flask_limiter.util import get_ipaddr`



I use `get_ipaddr`  here to obtain the real IP address of the request to avoid overwhelming request, a request will pass through many agents in the route, this function can withdraw the initial IP address of the request. 



flask does not support asynchronous request, so I import gevent for this purpose:

`from gevent import monkey`
`from gevent.pywsgi import WSGIServer`
`monkey.patch_all()`



To have a record of the API performance, we need to import this:

`import flask_monitoringdashboard as dashboard`



In another fold 'stock', I process all the things with basic request and location of files and web links on market data,  we need to import these modules as well:



`import aushare.stock.fundamental as td`
`from aushare.stock import cons as ct`



I used a lot of `pandas` to read data from .csv I have obtained and converted them to to the json format I need for private trading system. 

https://github.com/chenlocus/aushare/haoserver.py is the python script you need to run. 



Actually, flask is not a professional web server, so we can use gunicorn to run this server. 



1) install gunicorn:

```
pip install gunicorn
```



2) run the server with gunicorn, '&' is to keep it a demo running in background, 'nohup' keeps the application running even if you exit the terminal. 

`nohup gunicorn  -b 127.0.0.1: 12345 haoserver:app &`



For the above command, it is mostly used in intranet or semi-product environment. In product environment, clients need to visit from extranet on port 8000 by default, and we need to process concurrent request, load balance. There is a powerful kit we can use which is Nginx, written by a Russian engineer.  

Go to this file in EC2 instance using putty:

`/etc/nginx/site-available/default`



	server {
	
		listen 80 default_server;
	
		listen [::]:80 default_server;
	
	# SSL configuration
	#
	# listen 443 ssl default_server;
	# listen [::]:443 ssl default_server;
	#
	# Note: You should disable gzip for SSL traffic.
	# See: https://bugs.debian.org/773332
	#
	# Read up on ssl_ciphers to ensure a secure configuration.
	# See: https://bugs.debian.org/765782
	#
	# Self signed certs generated by the ssl-cert package
	# Don't use them in a production server!
	#
	# include snippets/snakeoil.conf;
	
	root /var/www/html;
	
	# Add index.php to the list if you are using PHP
	index index.html index.htm index.nginx-debian.html;
	
	server_name _;
	
	location / {
		proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:12345;
		proxy_set_header Host $host;
		proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
		#try_files $uri $uri/ =404;
	}


Then reload the setting to nginx, all done. 

`nginx -s reload`



Related topics: 

 - [Mine financial data from yahoo finance including historical price, balance sheet, income and cash report, and how to keep this up to date.](http://engineerman.club/2018/01/22/get-historical-data-with-python/)

 - [Get delayed real time price directly from ASX.](http://engineerman.club/2018/01/22/get-delayed-price-directly-from-ASX/)
http://engineerman.club/2020/01/12/build-a-rest-API-service-to-provide-market-data-for-yourself/
 - [Build a restful API service with flask,gunicorn and nginx.](http://engineerman.club/2020/01/12/build-a-rest-API-service-to-provide-market-data-for-yourself/) 

 - [Create an instance in aws for free.](http://engineerman.club/2018/11/16/create-an-instance-in-aws-for-free/)

 - [build a python running environment in aws EC2 and use putty, winSCP to access your instance.](http://engineerman.club/2018/11/16/How-to-access-the-EC2-instance-in-AWS/)

 - [configure crontab in aws to schedule application.](http://engineerman.club/2018/11/16/Schedule-regular-tasks-in-AWS/)
